[Bobby playing organ notes]
‐ You good, baby?
‐ Yeah. I'm good.
‐ That's my bitch,
and this right here is my town.
‐ It's my town.
[tense music]
Just fucking go home, yo.
‐ We 'bout to send you home
in a box.
PROSECUTOR:
Ladies and gentlemen
of the jury,
Bobby Diggs
came from New York.
He brought trouble with him.
DENNIS:
Hey, yo, where you goin'?
ASON: Back.
‐ To New York?
‐ Yeah, son, I got some pussy
waitin' on me right now.
‐ We closed, motherfuck‐‐
SHANK:
Shutting you down, New York.
[gunshots]
[grunting]
PERSON:
[grunts] Shit!
[gunshot]
[monitor beeping]
‐ Hey, where‐‐
where my backpack at?
‐ Wise gave it to my mom.
She gonna post Bobby's bail.
‐ Why do you carry a gun,
Bobby?
‐ I guess it's a sign
of not losing the fight.
‐ Well, your next fight,
it's not gonna be
in the streets.
It's gonna be in a courtroom.
BOBBY:
♪ A Black man in fear ♪
♪ Of the police arresting me ♪
♪ Illusions of luxury
possessing me ♪
♪ Like God is testing me ♪
♪ Scared to manly face
all the demons ♪
♪ That's confronting me ♪
‐ The jury finds the defendant,
Robert Fitzgerald Diggs,
not guilty.
ALL: Hey!
BOBBY: Yo!
[laughter]
LINDA:
Aw.
DENNIS: Yo, yo.
BOTH: Son.
DENNIS:
Welcome home, son.
‐ I'm back, man.
‐ I knew you were coming home.
I could feel it.
‐ Oh, yeah?
You got ESP?
‐ Randy has never said
his prayers more in his life.
His daddy even said a couple.
‐ Justice system
finally got something right.
[agreeing murmurs]
‐ All right.
Here's to this family.
Moving forward.
‐ Yes, yes.
ALL:
Cheers.
[phone ringing]
LINDA: All right.
‐ Wow, this is a lot better
than toilet wine.
RANDY:
Ew!
You drunk from the toilet?
Like Sheeba?
LINDA:
Bobby.
Somebody wanna speak to you.
‐ Yo.
Peace.
‐ Peace indeed, little bro!
‐ Yo, what's good, boy?
‐ The God is free!
‐ Yo, we got a party
on this line or what?
‐ No, no‐‐
[laughs]
Nah, nah, it's just us,
you know?
‐ Nah, it's not just us, son.
Say "what's up" to your boy.
‐ Yo, what up, B‐O‐B?
‐ Hey, yo, glad you out, kid.
BOBBY: Yo, respect.
‐ Ason.
SHOTGUN: Pass the method, son.
[static crackling]
‐ Ason‐‐Ason!
I think your phone's
outta range.
Yo, Bobby, I know we ain't
there with you,
but your acquittal is a‐‐
is a blessing for all of us.
‐ Yo, thanks, 'Vine.
Miss you, man.
‐ Yeah.
[laughs]
Yeah, I miss protecting
your skinny ass.
‐ Yeah, I miss
protecting you too, son.
‐ Yo, hold up.
You call Bobby or he call you?
‐ Come on, cuz, I know you not
acting like that
with me right now.
‐ You runnin' up
my long distance bills, son!
[both arguing]
BOBBY:
Hey, yo, yo, 'Vine.
Mommy said you're getting out
the halfway house today.
Yo, congrats, man.
DIVINE:
Yeah, finally.
I'm gonna see you real soon.
We both getting
our second chance, eh?
[Rebel and Ason
arguing indistinctly]
‐ I know it.
[hip‐hop music]
[blade resounds]
♪ ♪
[gun cocks]
[singer vocalizing]
♪ ♪
[blade resounds]
‐ You know, I'm not gonna miss
sleeping on this hard‐ass bed.
‐ This bed ain't
gonna miss you, either.
It's getting filled
in a couple hours
by a repeat felon.
His third time here.
You did good, 'Vine.
‐ [Divine chuckles]
If I recall correctly,
you didn't have
much faith in me
when I first got here.
‐ I save my faith for Sundays.
So how's the night shift?
‐ Honestly?
[scoffs]
It's time
to get up outta there.
Hey, it was a great place to
start, but my boss, you know.
FUFU: [chuckles]
Yeah, I know.
Haven't gotten
a positive review for him
in all the years we've been
sending men to work over there.
Most of those guys,
they make it outta here,
though.
Something about
working a graveyard
keeps a man focused.
Hey, listen.
I got a friend
who's looking to add
a few more hands
to his construction site.
I'll give him a call about you.
‐ You serious?
FUFU:
You ever know me not to be?
‐ No.
Thank you.
‐ Hey.
Don't let me
catch your ass back here.
Okay?
DIVINE:
Yeah, uh,
yeah, okay.
FUFU:
Good luck.
[Ice Cube's "Steady Mobbin'"]
SINGER: ♪ Four or five niggas
in a mothership ♪
♪ Better known as a deuce
and we all wanna...♪
PERSON:
Come on, man.
You gotta consider
wall‐crawling,
you gotta consider
Spidey‐Sense.
REBEL: Come on, now.
It ain't even a question.
‐ So what you saying?
REBEL: Nothing.
Just that Batman
could take Spider‐Man
any day of the week.
SHOTGUN:
That's what I thought you said.
The hell you even
talking about?
Batman ain't got no powers.
‐ Like that matters.
All the shit he got
in the Batcave?
‐ Whatever, man.
I don't even fuck with DC.
Yo, what up, El?
PERSON:
You smokin' again, Shotgun?
‐ [Shotgun laughs]
‐ Damn, son.
You really are the Method Man.
SHOTGUN: A'ight,
you wanna talk superhero shit?
Let's say your moms is trapped
in the Statue of Liberty.
Bomb 'bout to go off
in 90 seconds.
Who would you want to save her?
‐ I'm going with‐‐
SINGER: ♪ Bitch,
'cause I'm steady mobbin' ♪
SINGER: ♪ Have you ever seen
such a sight in your life? ♪
SHOTGUN:
This track is fire, son.
Whole album fire.
Was thinking Cube sounding
like he from West 6‐0.
‐ Shit, my nigga Cressy
used to say
the hood the same
from Killer Hill to Kingston.
Man, we all scratchin'
for survival.
‐ No doubt.
[cheering]
[dice clatter]
DADA:
A'ight, that's one.
Put that one down, nigga.
Let's fuck, let's get it. Whoo!
Take Leon's money.
Ah! Head crack nigga!
All dogs are good.
What up, Sha?
‐ It's kinda loud in here, man.
‐ That's my job, yo.
Some folks deliver the mail;
I deliver the dice.
Ah?
There you go.
I'm takin' these niggas' mack,
though.
[laughs]
[hip‐hop music playing]
♪ ♪
POWER:
What up, kid?
‐ Peace.
‐ Hop in.
SHA:
Nah, I'm good.
‐ Where you headed?
‐ Studio. I got a session.
POWER:
I can give you a ride.
‐ Man, the studio owner
see me pull up in this whip,
son gonna be charging me more.
‐ [Power laughing]
‐ Different hustle, Power.
Shit nice, though.
POWER:
She pretty, right?
But look, look.
I know you out the game
and all of that,
but if you tryin' to make some
extra cream, know what I mean?
Pay for those sessions,
come cook up a couple of bricks
for me.
Ain't nobody make that coke
bubble like the Chef, right?
‐ The only thing
I'ma be cooking up
is this track into something
marvelous, know what I mean?
POWER:
A'ight.
Let me catch you, then.
Good luck with that.
[Power chuckles]
♪ ♪
‐ You wanna record with this?
‐ Yeah.
‐ You realize you're paying
for the quality
of all this equipment, right?
This consumer‐grade tape's
gonna fuck all that up.
‐ That's the beat I want.
RUFUS:
Okay.
Who the hell
made this beat, anyway?
[hip‐hop music plays]
[indistinct chatter]
LINDA: Just want to give you
a fresh start.
They say your space
is a reflection
of your interior life,
and for years,
all I've ever seen
when I walked into yours
was chaos.
‐ Hey, look, uh,
I'm sorry, Mommy.
For real, for‐‐for everything.
‐ Just get your life
on track, Bobby.
That's all the apology
I ever need.
‐ Hey, y'all ready
for some cake?
‐ [laughs]
That's up to Bobby.
It's your day.
‐ Yeah. Ready for some cake.
Then maybe afterwards,
we could, uh, watch a movie.
LINDA: Let's do it.
BOBBY: Let's do it.
MECCA: Let's do it.
LINDA: All right.
JEROME: I don't have to
read subtitles, do I?
MOTHER:
If one of us has to die
to save the empire,
who will it be?
Which of my sons
is it going to be?
‐ "The Eight Diagram
Pole Fighter."
‐ Shurrie,
let me get some chips.
‐ Trade you for the popcorn?
RANDY: Okay.
DENNIS: Hey, yo,
you been holding out, son?
Ain't that homeboy
from "Shaolin vs. Wu‐Tang"?
‐ Yeah. Y'all in for a treat.
‐ What's this one about, Bobby?
‐ It's about losing
everything you love
and then finding your path
on your own.
[grunting on TV]
FIGHTER:
[yelling]
ASON:
Ah.
Mm.
That's the spot right there.
TESIA:
Here?
‐ Mm‐hmm.
TESIA: So then she went
to her man's house,
knocked on the front door,
and his wife opened it,
so she shot her in the face.
ASON:
Wait, what?!
‐ Some white lady
on Long Island.
She was the mistress. Look.
‐ B‐butt‐a‐fucko?
TESIA:
It's Buttafuoco.
[knock at door]
‐ Who the‐‐
Hey, girl,
you better be careful.
‐ [Tesia laughs]
You're early today.
‐ Hey, Ason,
your hair's looking funny.
‐ That's 'cause your mom
ain't finished it yet.
‐ Hey, yo,
who the fuck is that?
‐ None of your business.
See you next week.
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
Are you hungry?
CHILD:
Yes.
‐ Hey, yo.
♪ ♪
‐ Hey, yo, chill, son.
You're not even
with her no more.
‐ And when I'm done with you,
you ain't gonna be
with her no more, either.
‐ Man, fuck you.
‐ Oh, fuck me?
No, fuck you
and that corny‐ass hair.
Look, every time
you see this motherfucker,
whup his ass.
PERSON:
Yes, sir.
EX:
Come on.
♪ ♪
PERSON: Look at his‐‐
EX: Look at that ass.
Baby wax. He didn't wipe.
PERSON:
He don't wipe that baby.
Took 'em on.
‐ Get outta here, fellas.
[Nia clears throat]
‐ So, uh, our drawers
are cohabitated now too?
‐ You know, you could just, um,
keep your stuff in your bag
if you're feeling
non‐committal.
Are you?
‐ Nope.
NIA: Didn't think so.
‐ [chuckles]
Uh, I was gonna‐‐
I was gonna ask my PO
for a travel exemption
so we can go visit my nephew.
NIA:
That's a great idea.
DIVINE: Yeah, you know,
between the, uh,
the baby and‐‐
and Bobby's acquittal,
feel like I'm missing so much.
‐ Everyone's building
their lives
just like us here.
‐ You're right.
You know, I still miss 'em,
though.
‐ I know you do.
But maybe it's time for us
to start thinking about
having a little one of our own.
‐ You‐‐you know I want that,
but I gotta figure
my situation out first.
No, I can't be raising my kid
the way that I came up.
We need financial security.
‐ As long as
you're not going back
to the streets, we fine.
Plus, I just been promoted
to manager, okay?
We a'ight.
‐ Well, if I get this new job,
then we can start saving,
and then we can talk about it.
Cool?
‐ Cool.
NIA:
Mm, you just gotta wait.
DIVINE: Oh, wait.
NIA: Yeah.
All right, a'ight, a'ight.
[clears throat]
Oh, okay, so, uh,
now that you the manager
at the video store,
you decided to start
hustlin' the place.
‐ Okay, that is for Gary,
your cousin.
Dub him a couple tapes,
you know,
kicks me a few bucks.
We got a good thing going.
‐ Mm.
‐ Hey, you got
"The 36th Chamber of Shaolin"?
‐ Yeah, right here.
[indistinct chatter]
‐ Yo.
‐ Man, what happened to you?
ASON: Man, this girl
I've been messin' with,
her baby dad and his boys
just ran up on me, son.
GARY: Oh, word?
ASON: Yeah, man.
They not even
together no more, man!
But it's like‐‐it's like
he ain't going nowhere, man.
‐ You got "Fearless Fighters"?
GARY:
Yeah, right here.
And you wanna keep
fuckin' with her?
‐ Well, why shouldn't I?
GARY:
You already know.
You're screwing his baby moms.
Put yourself in his shoes.
You can't just be
running around here
with her like it's nothing.
‐ Can you pop this
in the VHS?
‐ Yeah, hold on. Listen.
‐ Man, I'm trying
to buy something from you.
How I know you ain't
sellin' me a blank tape?
‐ Because my word is bond.
‐ Man, I ain't no Muslim.
Play it. Please.
[gong reverberates]
GARY: Listen,
the original Black man is God
and owner of the Earth.
And knowing every square inch,
he choose for himself
the best part.
Come on.
‐ Word, bro. Word.
[whooshing]
‐ Yo, Israelites
coming over here now too?
GARY:
Ignore 'em.
Keep moving how we moving,
a'ight?
Listen, your name
is Ason Unique.
You choose for yourself
the best part
through your actions.
Approach him like a man.
He'll respect that.
‐ I dig.
I'm Ason.
DENNIS:
Hey, yo, my favorite part
is when he smashes that pole
through the wooden wolf.
That's some real shit.
Keep the wolves at bay.
‐ What you mean?
‐ What I mean is,
them bum‐ass niggas
that did this to us,
they can't be skatin'
around here
on some Dorothy Hamill shit.
About to get
that bail money back, though.
We can flip that shit,
cake up, arm up,
and smash them niggas.
BOBBY:
Hey, yo, D.
Hey, yo, we gotta‐‐
we gotta talk.
‐ Nah, it's just‐‐
yo, it's just like
you and Divine been sayin'
since the beginning.
We gotta build
a strong foundation
so it don't crumble around us.
Look, I got more mouths
to feed,
so I'm ready to get busy.
BOBBY:
Yeah.
We gotta keep building,
but we ain't gonna
get a positive result
if we keep on building
in a negative space.
‐ Negative space.
What you mean, like
this fuckin' hole in my neck?
Look, I gotta provide for
and protect my family.
BOBBY:
Yeah, you do.
DENNIS: That's all
I give a damn about right now.
LINDA:
Dennis? Dennis?
DENNIS:
Yes, ma'am.
LINDA: Shurrie says y'all need
more formula from the store.
DENNIS: Yo, this little man
eat, like, 12 times a day.
LINDA: Yeah, well,
he poops twice as much.
You're watching this again?
‐ Yeah.
I'm starting to like this
more than
that "Shaolin vs. Wu‐Tang."
‐ You really think
this story's about
him finding his path alone?
Because I think it's about
these brothers
needing each other to succeed.
‐ I never thought about it
like that before.
‐ You got my O'Jays.
[gasps]
I been looking for this one
for years!
‐ I‐‐I forgot
that I even took that,
but I do have a couple more
that you don't know about,
a'ight?
[both laugh]
‐ Ooh, ooh.
What do you even know
about this?
‐ What do I know about that?
LINDA:
Yeah.
‐ Let me ask you, a'ight?
What you know
about the percussion
on "Family Reunion"?
‐ Ooh, okay.
BOBBY: Okay.
‐ Let's listen.
BOBBY: You gonna play it.
‐ Yeah, yeah.
Go turn that down.
BOBBY: All right.
LINDA: Turn that down.
[sings under breath]
[soft R&B music playing]
Ooh, oh, come on.
Come on, come on.
BOBBY: Get that, Mama.
‐ [Linda vocalizing]
‐ Yeah, you gotta sing it.
Now, what do you know
about, uh,
the lead singer on this?
Eddie Levert?
‐ I know who Eddie Levert is,
boy, don't even tell me.
BOBBY:
A'ight.
‐ And the O'Jays rotate
their lead singers.
Come on.
Well, then you know
of his son Gerald.
LINDA:
Mm‐mm.
‐ Oh, let me
show you something.
He has this‐‐this record.
"My Forever Love."
That's me and Mecca's favorite.
Turn it around.
It's a song with him
and his pops.
Right here.
‐ Ooh, that's cute.
Oh, we should
make a record together.
Oh, come on.
[vocalizing]
You hear that? [laughs]
‐ I do hear it.
I don't do R&B, but if you
could spit a 16 for me,
then maybe we can talk.
LINDA: [laughing] No, no.
BOBBY: A'ight, then.
We outta luck.
‐ [Linda sighs]
Well, music's always
gonna be your path, isn't it?
‐ Yeah.
‐ Listen.
Watching this movie
the other day
reminded me
of a Confucius quote
I read a while back.
It says, "We have two lives.
"The second begins
when you realize
you only have one."
‐ Well, a person
might live two lives,
but I only have one calling.
‐ I know.
That's how
you get your heart broken,
and it pushed you
into the streets.
What's gonna be different
this time?
‐ This time, I'm gonna have
my brothers with me.
[hip‐hop beat playing]
♪ ♪
‐ You went over.
‐ What you talking about?
Rufus ain't say anything.
‐ There's a clock right there.
You owe me for another hour.
‐ Come on, son.
Yo, I‐‐I can't even pay that.
I mean, what you wanna‐‐
‐ Then I have to hold
your music here till you can.
‐ You serious right now?
‐ [chuckles]
Soon as you bring the money,
you'll get the music.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
SHA:
Yeah, a'ight.
I'll be back.
[indistinct chatter]
‐ Hey, yo.
PERSON: Word.
REBEL:
Hey, yo, you got something?
‐ Maybe.
‐ Come on, yo, spit it.
SHOTGUN:
Check it.
♪ Hey, you, get off my cloud ♪
♪ You don't know me
and you don't know my style ♪
♪ Who be getting' flam
when they come to the jam? ♪
♪ Here I am, here I am,
the Method Man ♪
♪ Pat‐a‐cake,
pat‐a‐cake, hey! ♪
♪ The Method Man ♪
♪ Don't eat Skippy, Jif,
or Peter Pan ♪
♪ Peanut butter
'cause I'm not butter ♪
♪ In fact, I snap back
like a rubber band ♪
♪ I be Sam, Sam‐I‐Am ♪
♪ And I don't eat
green eggs and ham ♪
♪ Style will hit you, wham! ♪
♪ Then God damn ♪
♪ You'll be like,
"Oh, shit, that's the jam" ♪
Some shit like that.
‐ [laughs]
Yo.
That's ill.
Yo, and that peanut butter shit
is nice.
Yo, what you call yourself?
Method Man?
‐ Mm‐hmm.
[upbeat hip‐hop music]
‐ That's kinda dope,
actually, yo.
Hey, yo, I need to fuck
with my own name.
‐ No doubt.
♪ ♪
[mouthing words]
I can't wait for Bobby
to hear me spit this.
I see you, Inspectah.
[suspenseful music]
[indistinct chatter]
‐ Hey, let me holla at you,
son.
Now, I know what you and Tesia
share is an unbreakable bond.
That sort of connection
just don't go away.
But, yo, she got a good thing
going on right now, son.
And I ain't trying to be
the kid's father or nothing.
Just trying to be a man.
So look, maybe
we can come up with some‐‐
some sort of understanding.
Together.
‐ There ain't gonna be
no understanding!
[gun cocks]
Yeah.
You understand?
ASON:
[mumbling]
PERSON:
This...
EX:
No, he good.
PERSON: You don't want
none of that, boy.
EX:
Go home.
Goof.
♪ ♪
[all speaking]
[steady hip‐hop music]
♪ ♪
BOBBY:
Oh, shit.
Come on, it's like‐‐
it's like riding a bike.
All right, fuck it.
Let's do this.
[steady beat playing]
SINGER:
♪ Don't know ♪
♪ If I'll make it back home ♪
♪ Don't kn‐‐ ♪
♪ Don't know ♪
[low‐pitched]
[low, distorted voice]
[high‐pitched]
♪ Don't know ♪
♪ If I make it back home ♪
[high‐pitched chirps]
[soft R&B music]
♪ ♪
BOBBY: [whispering]
What's this?
[funky beat playing]
♪ ♪
[music stops]
[music resumes]
♪ ♪
TV REPORTER: Domestic abuse
charges for‐‐
‐ Now, what did she expect?
He abused her in the past.
Why go back?
‐ Don't be getting
all worked up
over somebody else's problems,
Ma.
We got enough of our own.
‐ I do not need a reminder.
This woman on the news,
she lives
in an apartment building
just like this one.
‐ I know.
‐ Even so,
I wouldn't even consider
going back to Rondell's,
and all he did was raise
his voice every now and again.
‐ And again.
And again.
‐ All I'm saying is,
a person has a right
to come and go from their home
in peace.
SHA: I'ma get us
outta here soon, Ma.
I'm headed to the studio
right now, in fact.
I'm‐‐I'm working on it.
‐ Son, as long as you keep
walking the righteous path,
I will be happy.
OFFICER:
Shit's nice, kid.
‐ Yo, what's your problem?
‐ I don't eat pork, pig.
Yo, you wanna give me a ticket
for graffiti, go ahead.
‐ Why don't you
empty your pockets, instead?
‐ You wanna violate
my civil rights so bad...
[tense music]
You empty them.
‐ On the wall.
♪ ♪
SINGER:
♪ Scared than a motherfucker ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm fresh out ♪
♪ But I gots to make my green,
and plus they all fiend ♪
♪ Follow me ♪
♪ They keep yellin' murder
but it won't stop ♪
♪ Until the last nigga
that you know drop ♪
♪ Another nigga out,
but I doubt ♪
♪ That you really give a fuck
what it's about ♪
♪ Now, 99 pigs
on a block with me ♪
♪ Not a motherfuckin' cop
wanna knock with me ♪
♪ A C‐O‐N‐V‐I‐C‐T ♪
♪ The motherfuckin' D‐O‐G
comin' from the L‐B‐C... ♪
‐ Yo, you go.
[groans]
‐ What's good, son?
‐ What's up, son?
‐ That re‐up's under the seat.
‐ Yo, chill, son.
Rebel just got knocked
by some plainclothes jakes.
Word, son.
‐ Damn.
SHOTGUN:
Yo, who this?
U‐GOD: That's that new Dre
and Snoop joint right there.
West Coast motherfuckers
coming up with the real.
SINGER:
♪ 187 on an undercover cop ♪
‐ 187 on an undercover...
yo, if I ever see
the undercover that got Rebel,
I'll fuckin'...
you ever heard
of the Judas Chair?
‐ The what?
U‐GOD: The Judas Chair.
‐ No, son, you smokin'
your own shit now?
‐ No, nigga.
‐ [Shotgun laughs]
‐ It was actually introduced
during the Spanish Inquisition,
but you know
them old school motherfuckers
made that shit famous.
The Judas Chair,
that shit was this‐‐
this pointy‐ass metal pyramid
on wooden legs.
If I ever see
that undercover cop,
I'll fuckin' make him
sit on it,
and I'll fuckin'‐‐
I'll fuckin' strap
both of his ankles on‐‐
80‐pound weights that‐‐
that sit there,
and watch that shit
split him in half.
SHOTGUN:
Damn, U‐God.
Yo, that's some real
horror movie shit, son.
[chuckles]
U‐GOD: Word, son.
Yo, speaking
of crime and punishment,
you heard anything
about Bobby's case?
‐ Yo, you didn't hear?
U‐GOD: Nah.
‐ He got acquitted.
‐ Oh, ain't that some shit.
One of ours goes in,
another comes out.
At least there's a balance.
Better be making music
about that shit.
Yo, they ain't the only ones
with a motherfuckin'
street story to tell.
You know what I'm sayin'?
‐ You know, I played Bobby
your tape before he left.
He was feeling that shit, son.
‐ Word?
‐ Word.
You know, with him, it's like,
voices is a symphony
or some shit.
He like,
"That's‐‐that's the guy I need.
I need that bass."
[chuckles]
I'm like,
"Yo, son, you sounding
like a fiend right now."
‐ [U‐God chuckles]
Yo, you stupid, son.
I do got that other kind
of bass, though,
if you want it.
[both laugh]
‐ No doubt.
[indistinct conversation]
BUS DRIVER:
You coming?
‐ Nah, I'll catch the next one.
‐ Okay.
SINGER:
♪ Down with the head banger ♪
SINGERS:
♪ The head banger, what? ♪
♪ The head banger,
what? ♪
♪ The head banger, what? ♪
♪ The head banger,
what? ♪
the head banger ♪
SINGER: ♪ Now it's time
to break it down ♪
♪ Surprise, you wonder
where I've been ♪
♪ I've been workin',
but sounds makin' danger ♪
♪ And black birds chirpin' ♪
♪ A real Damien,
omen possessed by the devil ♪
♪ You dig the rhythm ♪
♪ And I'll play the ♪
SINGERS: ♪ Runnin' rebel ♪
SINGER:
♪ Changed my style... ♪
[knock at door]
SHA: Yo, peace,
I don't mean to interrupt,
but yo,
that shit right there crazy.
That's on the new joint?
‐ Yeah, man, thanks.
‐ All right, well,
I'm recording right next door
if you ever wanna hear
some of my shit.
‐ Yo, are you Sha?
SHA:
Yeah.
How you know my name?
‐ Clifton played me your stuff.
You got a grimy flow.
‐ Yeah, a'ight.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you.
My boy Prince Ra‐‐
my boy Bobby,
he made that beat.
‐ Yeah, he pulled that
from Cymande, right?
‐ I don't know
where he pulled that from,
but I know he be going deep in
the crates, know what I mean?
‐ Keep doin' what you doin',
man.
New York, you know,
we need more peoples
rhyming about
what we're living.
SHA:
I'm sayin'!
Y'all some of the only ones
holding it down while Dre
and Cube and everybody,
they gotta keep bustin' it out.
‐ Yo, I'm busy with
this Hit Squad stuff right now,
but when I'm done,
we should
put something together.
‐ Hell yeah!
Erick Sermon, all right.
ERICK: Mm‐hmm.
‐ Did he tell you
I played your music for him?
SHA: Yeah.
Peace.
Hey, yo, listen.
Hey, yo, I got that money
for you, a'ight?
‐ Why don't you
hold on to that for now?
I played your music
for a cousin of mine too.
He produced some stuff
for Leaders of the New School.
‐ Oh, word?
‐ Yeah.
He liked your style.
He want to record with you.
You work with him,
you keep your money.
‐ Yo, you for real?
‐ Can you shoot through
when he comes in?
‐ Definitely.
I'll be here.
‐ [chuckles]
‐ [whispering]
What?
[upbeat hip‐hop music]
♪ ♪
‐ What, you working out
some trigonometry over there?
BOBBY:
What's up?
‐ I said, what are you trying
to figure out?
BOBBY:
[sighs]
I'm trying to figure out
what comes next.
‐ Are you finished working
on that stack of beats
for you and your friends?
‐ My brothers.
‐ Finish beats
for your brothers.
Right, like you said.
[chuckles]
BOBBY:
But it ain't enough.
[sighs]
You gotta come in...
sword swinging, guns blazing.
You know what I'm saying?
Gotta be a master of the game.
‐ You know, baby,
I ain't never heard
any beats like the ones
you got over there, so.
BOBBY: Yeah, I got taken
by the industry once before,
and it wasn't my music.
It definitely has nothing
to do with my skill.
‐ Okay then.
BOBBY:
Yo, where you going?
MECCA: What, you think
I wanna sit around
and watch you work
on your skills?
BOBBY:
Hey, hey, hold on a minute.
I can take a break.
‐ Oh, you mean
that kinda break?
BOBBY:
Yeah.
[both laugh]
[The Charmels'
"As Long As I've Got You"]
[sultry R&B music]
♪ ♪
‐ ♪ A young buck
sellin' drugs and such ♪
♪ Who never had much ♪
♪ Tryin' to get a clutch
at what I could not touch ♪
♪ The court played me short,
now I face incarceration ♪
Pacin'...
[indistinct chatter]
♪ A young buck
sellin' drugs and such ♪
♪ Who never had much ♪
♪ Tryin' to get a clutch
at what I could not touch ♪
♪ The court played me short,
now I face incarceration ♪
♪ Pacin', goin' upstate's
my destination ♪
GREG:
It was a standard renovation
that turned
into a complete demolition,
which means now
I need a few more guys ASAP.
‐ Well, look, I'm happy to do
anything you need.
I worked all kinds of jobs
in my life,
starting back
to when I used to sell papers
with my best friend.
And then, you know,
I was a‐‐a janitor
down in, uh, Wall Street, so.
‐ Look. Look.
‐ I can do anything.
‐ I wanna hire you,
but with this job,
I don't have time
to train people.
If Fufu says you're good,
believe me, I know you're good.
But that isn't
the situation here.
‐ Well, try me out
on the first week.
You don't even gotta pay me.
I'm a fast learner
and a hard worker.
I can do a trial run.
No pay.
‐ Okay.
‐ Okay?
‐ You start tomorrow. 8:00 a. m.
‐ Well, thank you.
I‐‐I‐‐thank‐‐thank you.
I really appreciate this, sir.
You know, it's‐‐
‐ Call me Greg.
And I'm paying you.
[Raekwon's "State of Grace"]
[upbeat hip‐hop music]
♪ ♪
ISRAELITE:
The scripture can't be broken.
It means what it says.
Romans 9:16.
"So then it is not of him
that willeth,
"nor of him that runneth,
but of God that showeth mercy."
ISRAELITE:
So then the question is,
who does God have mercy for?
‐ The Black man himself is God,
and in knowing that,
has no fear
about who shows him mercy.
'Cause the Nation of Islam
embodies righteousness
and wisdom.
‐ How can the Nation of Islam
embody righteousness and wisdom
when you don't know
where you're from?
‐ Handle that situation?
ISRAELITE:
Isaiah 34:16.
Seek ye the book of the Lord...
‐ Yeah.
‐ So you good?
‐ I'm good.
ISRAELITE:
You don't even believe in God.
PERSON: Wah!
GARY: The devil continues
to speak of this mystery God.
Why?
To fool the 85% who allow
themselves to be fooled.
‐ Romans 1:22.
‐ Let's go.
ONE‐MAN ARMY: I am known
as the One‐Man Army.
Though I am but one man,
I fight
with the power of many souls.
[tense music]
EX:
Are you serious?
You back again?
DENNIS: Hey, yo.
‐ Yo.
‐ Trying to twist one?
BOBBY: Oh, nah,
it's all good, brother.
I'm on that natural high.
Hey, yo.
‐ Hey, yo.
‐ You know who these two are?
DENNIS: Nah.
BOBBY: That's Jim Stewart
and Estelle Axton.
They created Stax Records.
She took out a mortgage
of 2,500 out on her home
and invested that
into their own record label.
Yo, four years later,
everybody across America
was dancing
in their living rooms
to Otis Redding, yo.
Yo, look, it says right here...
"Success in the music industry
is in the business of it."
Yo, the business of it, yo.
‐ But yo, if you‐‐if you
read all them books already,
why you bring them shits home?
‐ I gotta
write this shit down, yo.
We can do all this shit
ourselves.
‐ Yeah, well,
Wise got that heat.
I'm sure we could shake down
way more than just 2,500.
‐ You gotta can that shit now,
man.
‐ You think I don't
know that shit, son?
‐ Hey, you remember us, uh,
making our first track?
‐ The "Dipsy Doodles"
cheese doodles song?
BOBBY:
[laughs]
Had to use that
old‐ass equipment and shit.
Had to plug the headphones
into the mic jack.
‐ [Dennis laughs]
‐ You remember that?
‐ Hey, yo,
the quality was trash,
but still, niggas was fucking
with it at school.
‐ You bagged Tanya
off of that shit.
‐ Yo, Shurrie don't know
about no Tanya.
No, but Ason and Gary?
Yeah, they really
hyped that track up
to Tanya, though.
‐ Hey, yo, if we gonna make it,
that's what we gotta be on,
you know what I'm saying?
Gotta be on the same path.
It's just like that movie.
The brotherhood.
‐ Yeah, we dropped out
of school that year, remember?
Just spent all day
at your crib,
watching flicks, making demos.
Yo, you was always‐‐
you was always determined
to finish them songs,
son, every time.
‐ I've been having that same
surge of determination lately.
Just fuckin' the feeling, like,
I gotta be on my path.
Yo, that's why, uh...
I'm gonna head back
to New York.
[soft piano music]
You're welcome to come with.
You know, you could‐‐
you could stay here.
It's up to you.
‐ Guess we goin'
our separate ways, then, son.
I gotta take care of my family,
and I don't know
if music is gonna do that.
BOBBY:
Yo, let me, uh,
let me play you
some shit real fast, a'ight?
I been working on this shit
all day.
Can't really figure out
what to do with the drums,
but, uh, maybe you can
help me out.
SINGER: Bastards must be
runnin' outta niggas to arrest.
[soft R&B music playing]
♪ ♪
[both laugh]
‐ Nah, that don't need
no drums.
That shit beautiful, fam.
Remind me of our childhood.
Yo, your beats been getting
razor‐sharp, son.
For real.
‐ I'm not leaving you, D.
But, yo, I am gonna
leave you with this beat.
And you can decide
what you wanna do with it.
[tape deck clicks,
music stops]
TESIA:
So when are you gonna show me?
ASON: I'll show you
right now, baby girl.
TESIA:
Well, come on, then.
‐ ♪ My hip‐hop drops
on your head like rain ♪
♪ And when it rains, it pours ♪
♪ 'Cause my rhymes hardcore ♪
♪ That's why I give you more
of the raw ♪
♪ Talent that I got
when I rock the spot ♪
♪ MCs, I be burnin',
burnin' hot ♪
♪ Whoa‐oh‐oh ♪
♪ Let me, like, slow up
with the flow ♪
♪ If I move too quick, oh,
you just don't know ♪
You're not feelin' me?
‐ Daniel's father
is behind you.
Don't look.
ASON: Your ex?
Girl, don't worry about that.
That's done.
‐ Ason, he's got his army
with him.
ASON:
Relax.
I got the power of many swords.
‐ [whispering]
And he's got his shotgun.
‐ Say what?
TESIA: His shotgun.
‐ [whispering]
Is he close?
TESIA:
He's getting closer.
What are you doing?
Run!
‐ Just chill, all right.
‐ I'll still fuck with you.
Don't be stupid.
‐ Wassup?
[upbeat hip‐hop music]
[indistinct chatter]
[distorted shouting]
♪ ♪
‐ I'm the one‐man army, Ason!
Ha.
Yo, what you say
about fucking me?
MS. WARD:
Oh, my goodness.
[laughs]
SHA:
What you laughing at, Ma?
‐ See this movie
you can rent now?
You see that boy's hair?
SHA:
"House Party 2"?
‐ You know it?
SHA: Those two boys,
they're rappers.
They're a little different
from me, though.
MS. WARD: They putting rappers
in movies now?
Hmm.
Maybe that can be you one day.
‐ [chuckles]
Maybe.
I'm actually getting ready
to meet this producer.
This could be our break.
‐ I'm proud of you, son.
‐ I'll see you later, Ma.
PLAYER:
Whoo!
[indistinct chatter]
Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Let's go, pick that shit up.
Let's get it.
Fuck, whoo!
SHA:
Where's Rebel at?
‐ He got knocked, son.
‐ Word? Damn.
[indistinct chatter]
‐ Say that shit again, nigga.
Say that shit again.
PLAYER: What? No!
DADA: Say that shit again.
[mocking] "What?"
PLAYER: No!
SHOTGUN: Yo! Motherfuckin'‐‐
[Sha groans]
‐ Where you get it, son?
‐ My fucking leg.
Yo, what, the fuck?
[groaning]
‐ Yo, I think the bullet
went straight through, son.
DADA: My bad, my bad,
man, my bad.
SHA: You fuckin' shot me, man!
What the fuck?
‐ What the fuck
is wrong with you?
‐ I just be getting
mad competitive!
You know how it be.
You know I don't
mean that shit.
‐ Yo, put that shit away, man!
What the fuck
is wrong with you, man?
Fu‐‐I don't wanna hear
all that shit!
SHOTGUN:
Get the fuck outta here!
DADA: I told you,
I didn't mean
to shoot the nigga!
SHOTGUN:
Fuck.
You all right, son?
‐ You be a'ight, bro.
My bad.
MECCA:
Is she your new girlfriend?
BOBBY:
Not my girlfriend.
My babies.
A case of beats
with each one labeled
for each one of my brothers.
The Wu‐Tang Clan.
‐ Can I join the Wu‐Tang Clan?
‐ Come here, baby.
There.
‐ I'ma come visit you
in New York.
BOBBY:
Yeah, I know you will.
‐ And you better be ready
and waiting.
BOBBY:
You know I will.
‐ All right.
You make sure
you lead those boys
instead of letting them
lead you
right back to where you were.
‐ I know, Mommy.
I needed those lessons
of the past
so I don't make
the same mistakes now.
But I see
everything clearly now.
I know I made you
a lot of promises,
but this one,
I'ma keep.
‐ Well, then, I guess
there's no stopping you.
[both chuckle]
‐ No.
You gonna be okay?
‐ I always am.
‐ That's right.
Thank you.
‐ You be safe.
You take care of yourself, son.
‐ I will.
Oh, I left you, uh,
some movies in the living room.
‐ [chuckles]
Oh, well.
Hope they not as bloody
as the Pole Fighter.
‐ No promises.
‐ [Linda chuckles]
I love you.
BOBBY:
I love you too.
[sentimental music]
♪ ♪
[hip‐hop music]
SINGER: ♪ It's good to see
the Wu‐Tang family ♪
♪ Under one roof,
we celebrate ♪
♪ Toastin' shots,
Ciroc 40 proof ♪
♪ Burgers on the grill
and fried fish ♪
♪ The Wiz made potato salad,
greens for a side dish ♪
♪ Cold water, mill
and reminisce ♪
♪ With cousins and sisters ♪
♪ Children on the grass
playin' ball and Twister ♪
♪ Fresh lemonade is made,
we playin' spades ♪
♪ My nephews turn the livin'
room into an arcade ♪
♪ Aunt's cherry baked pie ♪
♪ Surprise, Johnny showed up ♪
♪ You can tell from the smell
in the air ♪
♪ Somethin' rolled up ♪
♪ It's love, peace and
happiness ♪
♪ with the joy and laughter ♪
♪ Camera phones flashes,
the moment is captured ♪
SINGER: ♪ I miss
my grandmother ♪
♪ My auntie
Unique Ason ♪
♪ I knew Dirt was high
when he had that face on ♪
♪ Fangs hangin' out his mouth,
his fronts was golden ♪
♪ Wildin', record execs
can't control him ♪
♪ He said ish like
me and Mariah ♪
♪ Hit me, woah‐woah‐woah,
that's fire ♪
♪ Still no matter what we gon'
rep the name ♪
♪ Look at your family, we got
twenty years in the game ♪
SINGER: ♪ A family reunion ♪
♪ Gonna have a family reunion ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Family reunion ♪
♪ It's so nice
to come together ♪
♪ To get together ♪
[rap fading out]
PERSON: Get on the line.